---
title: What's new in Chromium 69 and Opera 56
authors:
- daniel-bratell
intro: 'Opera 56 (based on Chromium 69) for [Mac, Windows, Linux](https://www.opera.com/computer) is out! To find out what’s new for users, see our [Desktop blog post](https://blogs.opera.com/desktop/2018/09/opera-56-stable). Here’s what it means for web developers.'
tags:
- html
- css
- dom
- javascript
- opera
license: cc-by-3.0
---

Opera 56 (based on Chromium 69) for [Mac, Windows, Linux](https://www.opera.com/computer) is out! To
find out what’s new for users, see our
[Desktop blog post](https://blogs.opera.com/desktop/2018/09/opera-56-stable).
Here’s what it means for web developers.

In this release there is mostly incremental changes, but we are
looking forward to seeing what people can do with the new CSS conical
gradient support. Below is a quick overview of changes. Follow the
links for more details, specifications and examples.

## CSS

### CSS > [Conic gradients](https://leaverou.github.io/conic-gradient/)

The web already has linear gradients where the colour depends on the
distance to a line, and radial gradients where the colour depends on
the distance to a point. Now it also gets conic gradients where the
colour depends on the angular distance to a line through the new
[`conic-gradient`](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-images-4/#conic-gradients)
function.

Example:

<div style="border: 3px solid black; background: conic-gradient(red, yellow, green, red); width: 400px; height: 400px;"></div>

### CSS > Logical margin, paddings and border properties

Blink, the Chromium/Opera browser engine, has gotten some [new CSS
properties](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-logical-1/#box) that adapt to
text direction. So `padding-inline-start` will apply to either left or
right depending on what side you start reading. Other examples of
newly added properties are `border-block-end-color`,
`margin-inline-start` and `padding-inline-end`.

### CSS > Scroll Snap

[CSS Scroll Snap](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scroll-snap) allows the
page author to determine what is suitable places in a document to snap
to. This could be used to avoid cutting off content or to align
content that is as large as the viewport correctly. This is a common
problem in a tile based user interface.

Previously this problem has been solved through JavaScript but doing
it in CSS allows a much smoother user experience.

### CSS > Display cutouts

"Cutouts" is an area on a mobile phone where only part of the screen
is available to the web page, like the notch at the top of some
phones. With the display cutout support, it becomes possible to layout
content around the cutout in an adaptive way.

In CSS the necessary data can be extracted from the `env`
function. See [the specification](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-env-1/)
for details.

### CSS > Grid Layout

The interpretation of height percentages for row tracks and gutters
will change to be compliant with the specification in the next
release, but already in Opera 56 you will see warnings if you are
using height calculations that might change.

## Media

### Media > OffscreenCanvas

OffscreenCanvas is a canvas intended to be used in workers. Sometimes
painting requires heavy calculation more suitable for a webworker and
then OffsceenCanvases will come in handy. They have almost the [same
API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#the-offscreencanvas-interface) as
ordinary canvases so moving code to a worker should be easy.

### Media > `stalled` removed from HTMLMediaElements

There used to be an event `stalled` that fired for Media Source
Extension (MSE) players if no data had been added for 3 seconds. This
was not useful since the media player can be fine receiving data less
often depending on buffer sizes and transfer chunk sizes. The event
has now been removed.

### Media > EME (Encrypted Media Extensions)

It is now possible for a web developer to query the browser about what
encryption schemes it supports through EME. This is useful because
there is no general agreement across all platforms about what
encryption schemes should be supported.

## DOM

### DOM > `Element.toggleAttribute()` added

With
[`Element.toggleAttribute`](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#dom-element-toggleattribute)
an attribute can be removed if it exists or added if it does not. This
is especially useful for boolean attributes such as `disabled` or
`readonly`. Example:

    // Switch disabled mode of "the button".
    var theButton = document.getElementById("the-button");
    theButton.toggleAttribute("disabled");

### DOM > document.createTouchList() removed.

The official way to create Touch objects is through the `Touch()`
constructor so `document.createTouchList()` had no use and is now
removed.

## ReportingObserver

Through the [ReportingObserver
API](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/07/reportingobserver)
it becomes possible to collect information such as deprecation
warnings and manually (through scripts) handle them. For instance by
sending them to a server.

## JavaScript `Array.prototype.flat()` / `flatMap()`

V8, the JavaScript engine, now has support for `flat()` and
`flatMap()` on arrays, allowing code to easily expand sub-arrays in
place.

    x = [ [1, 1], [2, 3], 5 ];
    y = x.flat(); // y = [ 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 ]

Using `flatMap()` allows code to write a function that controls how
each array element is expanded.

## Keyboard Map API

The [Keyboard Map API](https://wicg.github.io/keyboard-map/) allows
web applications to get a descriptive string for different keyboard
keys. This can be of use when telling a user what key to press, in for
instance a game.

Example from the specification:

    navigator.keyboard.getLayoutMap().then(function(map) {
        var keyUp = map.get("KeyW");
        showUserDialog("Press " + keyUp + " to move up.");
    });

## Network Info API / HTTP Client Hints

Approximate network information is now available through both
JavaScript and HTTP Client Hints.  More details can be found on the
Chromium [feature status
page](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5407907378102272).

## Web Locks API

[Web Locks](https://wicg.github.io/web-locks/) allows better
synchronization between tabs that share the same resource, something
that has become more important as more APIs are asynchronous. This is
most useful when storage resources such as IndexedDB and WebSQL are
used in a non-atomic way, but can be used for any purpose.

Example from the link above:

    navigator.locks.request('my_resource', async lock => {
       // The lock has been acquired.
       await do_something();
       await do_something_else();
       // Now the lock will be released.
    });

## What's next?

If you're interested in experimenting with features that are in the
pipeline for future versions of Opera, we recommend following
[our Opera Developer stream](https://www.opera.com/developer).

You can also see features that we and other Chromium/Blink
contributors are working on by looking at the [Chrome Platform
Status](https://www.chromestatus.com/features) page.
