Title: Keyboard accessibility in web applications: part 3
----
Date: 2009-07-22 17:54:34
----
Lang: en
----
Author: 
----
License: Creative Commons Attribution, Non Commercial - Share Alike 2.5
----
License_url: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/2.5/
----
Text:

<ul class="seriesNav">
<li class="prev"><a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/keyboard-accessible-web-applications-2/" rel="start" title="link to the first article in the series">Previous article &#8212; Keyboard accessibility in web applications: part 2</a></li>
</ul> 

    <h2>Table of contents</h2>

    <ul>
      <li><a href="#introduction">Introduction</a></li>
      <li><a href="#overview">Overview</a></li>
      <li><a href="#theimplementation">The implementation</a>
        <ul>
          <li><a href="#theeventhandlers">The event handlers</a></li>
          <li><a href="#helperfunctions">Helper functions</a></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#whatsnext">Summary</a></li>
    </ul>

    <h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

    <p>In the <a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/keyboard-accessible-web-applications-1/">first part</a> of the article we added 
    keyboard shortcuts to a painting application. In the <a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/keyboard-accessible-web-applications-2/">second part</a> we implemented a way to move the pointer 
    inside the drawing canvas using keyboard shortcuts. Now we will look into 
    the cross-browser compatibility layer implementation for handling all the 
    differences between browsers.</p>

    <p class="note">To make it easier to follow along with the code walkthrough 
    presented below, <a href="canvas-paint-keyboard-tutorial.zip">download the 
      full code example</a> and follow along with it as you read the 
    article.</p>

    <h2 id="overview">Overview</h2>

    <p>There are important differences between browsers with regards to keyboard 
    events. Differences apply to the properties and the values they provide in 
    the DOM Event objects. There are also differences that affect the firing of 
    the events, and default action prevention. Last but not least, the same 
    browser can behave differently on a different operating system.</p>

    <p>Keyboard events have several important properties:</p>

    <ul>
      <li><code>keyCode</code> gives the code of the key for a specific event.  
      For example, the key code for <kbd>Enter</kbd> is 13, or 17 for 
      <kbd>Control</kbd>. Some keys, mostly the alpha-numeric ones, have the 
      same key code as the character Unicode decimal value. For example, the key 
      <kbd>P</kbd> has the key code 80, which is the same as the Unicode decimal 
      for the &quot;P&quot; capital letter.</li>

      <li><code>charCode</code> is only provided by Firefox (Gecko), Safari 
      (Webkit) and Google Chrome (Webkit) when the key generates a character. It 
      holds the Unicode decimal for that character.</li>

      <li><code>which</code> is arbitrarily available in most browsers, except 
      Internet Explorer.</li>

      <li><code>keyIdentifier</code> is the new property defined by the <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-3-Events/">DOM 3 Events 
        specification</a>. This property is only available for the 
      <code>keydown</code> and <code>keyup</code> events, in Webkit and 
      Konqueror 4. The values it holds are either key names like 
      <kbd>Enter</kbd>, <kbd>PageDown</kbd> etc., or the the Unicode 
      character generated by the key event, using the literal notation &quot;U+XXXX&quot;. 
      If you press the <kbd>P</kbd> key, then the <code>keyIdentifier</code> value 
      is &quot;U+0050&quot;.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>So this is the big picture - you are already getting an idea of how 
    difficult is to identify a key from a keyboard event. In short, the browser 
    differences you need to be aware of are as follows:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>The <code>keyCode</code> property holds the code of the key only during 
      the <code>keydown</code> and <code>keyup</code> events in most browsers.  
      In the <code>keypress</code> event, this property actually holds the 
      character Unicode decimal value. For example, if you press the key 
      <kbd>P</kbd> without holding the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key down, then 
      <code>keyCode</code> is 80 in the <code>keydown</code> and the 
      <code>keyup</code> events. In the <code>keypress</code> event the property 
      value is 112 - the Unicode decimal for the &quot;p&quot; character.</li>

      <li>Since not all browsers give the <code>charCode</code> property, in the 
      <code>keypress</code> event you cannot easily determine the difference 
      between a key code and a character code. Therefore, you need to remember 
      the key code from the <code>keydown</code> event.</li>

      <li>Webkit does not always provide the correct value for the 
      <code>keyIdentifier</code> property. For some keys, the value is &quot;U+0000&quot; 
      instead of &quot;Unidentified&quot; as the specification says it should be when the 
      key is not recognized.</li>

      <li>Konqueror 4 does not use the &quot;U+XXXX&quot; notation in the 
      <code>keyIdentifier</code> property. Instead, it gives you the character 
      directly, as-is.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>As I said before, there are differences between browsers with regards to 
    event firing as well:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>Opera (Presto) and Firefox (Gecko) fire the <code>keypress</code> 
      event for all keys, except for modifiers. Konqueror (KHTML) also fires 
      this event for modifiers.</li>

      <li>On Windows, Internet Explorer fires the <code>keypress</code> event 
      only for characters (alpha-numeric and symbols). Additionally, the event 
      is fired for three keys: <kbd>Escape</kbd>, <kbd>Space</kbd> and 
      <kbd>Enter</kbd>.  Safari and Google Chrome (both Webkit) do the same, 
      with the exception that they do not fire the event for 
      <kbd>Escape</kbd>.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Another important difference between browsers is how they repeat the 
    keyboard events, while the user holds down the same key for longer periods 
    of time. For example, Firefox on Linux only repeats the 
    <code>keypress</code> event. However, Firefox on Windows repeats both 
    events, the <code>keydown</code> and the <code>keypress</code> events.</p>

    <p>This is only an overview of browser differences, and it&#39;s not highly 
    detailed. For more details, you might want to check out the code comments in 
    the <a href="lib4.js">lib.js</a> file from the app4 folder in the code download.</p>

    <h2 id="theimplementation">The implementation</h2>

    <p>The minimal JavaScript library code tries to determine the accurate 
    <code>keyCode</code> and <code>charCode</code>. The <code>keypress</code> event 
    is dispatched synthetically for all keys, except modifiers. The 
    <code>keydown</code> event is never repeated; only the <code>keypress</code> 
    event is repeated.</p>

    <p>Here is the basic structure of the <code>KeyboardEventListener</code> 
    class:</p>

<pre><code>lib.dom.KeyboardEventListener = function (elem_, handlers_) {
  var keyCode_ = null;
  var key_ = null;
  var charCode_ = null;
  var char_ = null;
  var repeat_ = false;

  this.attach = function () { ... };
  this.detach = function () { ... };

  function dispatch (type, ev) { ... };

  function keydown (ev) { ... };
  function keypress (ev) { ... };
  function keyup (ev) { ... };

  function isModifierKey (key) { ... };
  function firesKeyPress (ev) { ... };

  function findKeyCode (ev) { ... };
  function findCharCode (ev) { ... };

  this.attach();
};</code></pre>

    <p>When you create a new instance of the <code>KeyboardEventListener</code> 
    class you need to provide the DOM Element you want to listen for keyboard events 
    on, the <code>elem_</code> argument. You also have to provide the event 
    handler(s) you want for each keyboard event: <code>keydown</code>, 
    <code>keypress</code> and <code>keyup</code>. The <code>handlers_</code> 
    argument must be an object holding the event names as properties, with the 
    values are the functions, the handlers you want for each event. Example 
    code:</p>

<pre><code>var <code>klogger</code> = function (<code>ev</code>) {
  console.log(<code>ev</code>.type +
    &#39; keyCode_ &#39; + <code>ev</code>.keyCode_ +
    &#39; key_ &#39; + <code>ev</code>.key_ +
    &#39; charCode_ &#39; + <code>ev</code>.charCode_ +
    &#39; char_ &#39; + <code>ev</code>.char_ +
    &#39; repeat_ &#39; + <code>ev</code>.repeat_);
};

var <code>kbListener</code> = new lib.dom.KeyboardEventListener(window,
              {keydown: <code>klogger</code>,
               keypress: <code>klogger</code>,
               keyup: <code>klogger</code>});

// later when you are done...
<code>kbListener</code>.detach();</code></pre>

    <p>The event listeners are automatically attached to the element you give 
    when the <code>KeyboardEventListener</code> class is instanced. Here is the 
    code used for attaching and detaching the event listeners:</p>

<pre><code>/**
 * Attach the keyboard event listeners to the current DOM element.
 */
this.attach = function () {
  keyCode_ = null;
  key_ = null;
  charCode_ = null;
  char_ = null;
  repeat_ = false;

  elem_.addEventListener(&#39;keydown&#39;,  keydown,  false);
  elem_.addEventListener(&#39;keypress&#39;, keypress, false);
  elem_.addEventListener(&#39;keyup&#39;,    keyup,    false);
};

/**
 * Detach the keyboard event listeners from the current DOM element.
 */
this.detach = function () {
  elem_.removeEventListener(&#39;keydown&#39;,  keydown,  false);
  elem_.removeEventListener(&#39;keypress&#39;, keypress, false);
  elem_.removeEventListener(&#39;keyup&#39;,    keyup,    false);

  keyCode_ = null;
  key_ = null;
  charCode_ = null;
  char_ = null;
  repeat_ = false;
};</code></pre>

    <p>As you can see, the event handlers are not used here. The event handlers 
    are the private functions, <code>keydown()</code>, <code>keypress()</code> 
    and <code>keyup()</code>. Each of these functions will deal individually 
    with browser differences, and they will call the event handlers you 
    provided.</p>

    <h3 id="theeventhandlers">The event handlers</h3>

    <p>Here we have the code for the <code>keydown()</code> event handler:</p>

<pre><code>function keydown (ev) {
  var prevKey = key_;

  charCode_ = null;
  char_ = null;

  findKeyCode(ev);

  ev.keyCode_ = keyCode_;
  ev.key_ = key_;
  ev.repeat_ = key_ &amp;&amp; prevKey == key_ ? true : false;

  repeat_ = ev.repeat_;

  // Do not repeat keydown events.
  if (!repeat_) {
    dispatch(&#39;keydown&#39;, ev);
  }

  // MSIE and Webkit only fire the keypress event for characters 
  // (alpha-numeric and symbols).
  if (!isModifierKey(key_) &amp;&amp; !firesKeyPress(ev)) {
    ev.type_ = &#39;keydown&#39;;
    keypress(ev);
  }
};</code></pre>

    <p>This function determines the <code>keyCode_</code> and the <code>key_</code> 
    variables for the current event, using the <code>findKeyCode()</code> 
    function.  The two variables are added as new properties to the DOM Event 
    object, such that the event handler you provided will be able to use the 
    values. If the <code>keydown</code> event is repeated, then <code>ev.repeat_</code> 
    will be set to true. The event is dispatched to the <code>keydown</code> 
    handler you provided using the <code>dispatch()</code> function only if the 
    event is not repeating.</p>

    <p>Another issue being tackled by the <code>keydown()</code> function is the 
    firing of the <code>keypress</code> event. As described above, Webkit and IE 
    do not always fire the event. Therefore, if the key is not a modifier, and 
    if the <code>firesKeyPress()</code> function returns false, then we manually 
    invoke the <code>keypress()</code> event handler.</p>

    <p>The <code>charCode_</code> and <code>char_</code> variables are reset to 
    null, because the character is never determined during the 
    <code>keydown</code> event.</p>

    <p>Before we see the code for the functions used by the <code>keydown</code> 
    event handler, let&#39;s take a look at the code of the other two event 
    handlers. Here is the <code>keypress()</code> function:</p>

<pre><code>function keypress (ev) {
  if (!keyCode_) {
    findKeyCode(ev);
    repeat_ = false;
  }

  ev.keyCode_ = keyCode_;
  ev.key_ = key_;

  findCharCode(ev);

  ev.charCode_ = charCode_;
  ev.char_ = char_;

  // Any subsequent keypress event is considered a repeated keypress (the user 
  // is holding down the key).
  ev.repeat_ = repeat_;
  if (!repeat_) {
    repeat_ = true;
  }

  if (!isModifierKey(key_)) {
    dispatch(&#39;keypress&#39;, ev);
  }
};</code></pre>

    <p>This code expects the <code>keyCode_</code> and <code>key_</code> variables 
    to be set from the <code>keydown</code> event; we can only determine the 
    <code>charCode_</code> and the <code>char_</code> variables using the 
    <code>findCharCode()</code> function. As described above, in general cases 
    the <code>keydown</code> event gives the key code, and the 
    <code>keypress</code> event gives the character code. Still, if for some 
    reason the key was not determined during the <code>keydown</code> event, 
    the code tries again.</p>

    <p>The <code>keypress</code> event is only dispatched to the event handler 
    you provided if it is not a modifier key. Here is the <code>keyup</code> 
    event handler:</p>

<pre><code>function keyup (ev) {
  findKeyCode(ev);

  ev.keyCode_ = keyCode_;
  ev.key_ = key_;

  // Provide the character info from the keypress event in keyup as well.
  ev.charCode_ = charCode_;
  ev.char_ = char_;

  dispatch(&#39;keyup&#39;, ev);

  keyCode_ = null;
  key_ = null;
  charCode_ = null;
  char_ = null;
  repeat_ = false;
};</code></pre>

    <p>Here we are trying to determine the <code>keyCode_</code> for the 
    <code>keyup</code> event again, even if we might already have it from the 
    previous <code>keydown</code> event. This is needed because the user might 
    press some key which only generates the <code>keydown</code> and the 
    <code>keypress</code> events, after which a sudden <code>keyup</code> event 
    is fired for a completely different key. For example, in Opera press 
    <kbd>F2</kbd> then <kbd>Escape</kbd>. It will first generate two events 
    - <code>keydown</code> and <code>keypress</code> - for the <kbd>F2</kbd> 
    key. When you press <kbd>Escape</kbd> to close the dialog box, the script 
    receives the <code>keyup</code> event for the <kbd>Escape</kbd> key.</p>

    <p>After the <code>keyup</code> event is dispatched to the event handler you 
    provided, any information stored during the event flow is lost, to prevent 
    any mix-up.</p>

    <h3 id="helperfunctions">Helper functions</h3>

    <p>Here is the simple <code>isModifierKey()</code> function:</p>

<pre><code>function isModifierKey (key) {
  switch (key) {
    case &#39;Shift&#39;:
    case &#39;Control&#39;:
    case &#39;Alt&#39;:
    case &#39;Meta&#39;:
    case &#39;Win&#39;:
      return true;
    default:
      return false;
  }
};</code></pre>

    <p>The function is as straightforward as it can be.</p>

    <p>Next, let&#39;s look at the function that determines if the browser will fire 
    a <code>keypress</code> event or not:</p>

<pre><code>function firesKeyPress (ev) {
  if (!lib.browser.msie &amp;&amp; !lib.browser.webkit) {
    return true;
  }

  // Check if the key is a character key, or not.
  // If it&#39;s not a character, then keypress will not fire.
  // Known exceptions: keypress fires for Space, Enter and Escape in MSIE.
  if (key_ &amp;&amp; key_ != &#39;Space&#39; &amp;&amp; key_ != &#39;Enter&#39; &amp;&amp; key_ != &#39;Escape&#39; &amp;&amp; 
      key_.length != 1) {
    return false;
  }

  // Webkit doesn&#39;t fire keypress for Escape as well ...
  if (lib.browser.webkit &amp;&amp; key_ == &#39;Escape&#39;) {
    return false;
  }

  // MSIE does not fire keypress if you hold Control / Alt down, while Shift is off.
  if (lib.browser.msie &amp;&amp; !ev.shiftKey &amp;&amp; (ev.ctrlKey || ev.altKey)) {
    return false;
  }

  return true;
};</code></pre>

    <p>There is no way to detect if the <code>keypress</code> event will really 
    fire or not. We simply rely on the knowledge we have based on testing and 
    online documentation.</p>

    <p>The <code>keyCode_</code> and <code>key_</code> variables above are 
    determined by the <code>findKeyCode()</code> function:</p>

<pre><code>function findKeyCode (ev) {
  /*
   * If the event has no keyCode/which/keyIdentifier values, then simply do 
   * not overwrite any existing keyCode_/key_.
   */
  if (ev.type == &#39;keyup&#39; &amp;&amp; !ev.keyCode &amp;&amp; !ev.which &amp;&amp; (!ev.keyIdentifier || 
        ev.keyIdentifier == &#39;Unidentified&#39; || ev.keyIdentifier == &#39;U+0000&#39;)) {
    return;
  }

  keyCode_ = null;
  key_ = null;

  // Try to use keyCode/which.
  if (ev.keyCode || ev.which) {
    keyCode_ = ev.keyCode || ev.which;

    // Fix Webkit quirks
    if (lib.browser.webkit) {
      // Old Webkit gives keyCode 25 when Shift+Tab is used.
      if (keyCode_ == 25 &amp;&amp; this.shiftKey) {
        keyCode_ = lib.dom.keyNames.Tab;
      } else if (keyCode_ &gt;= 63232 &amp;&amp; keyCode_ in lib.dom.keyCodes_Safari2) {
        // Old Webkit gives wrong values for several keys.
        keyCode_ = lib.dom.keyCodes_Safari2[keyCode_];
      }
    }

    // Fix keyCode quirks in all browsers.
    if (keyCode_ in lib.dom.keyCodes_fixes) {
      keyCode_ = lib.dom.keyCodes_fixes[keyCode_];
    }

    key_ = lib.dom.keyCodes[keyCode_] || String.fromCharCode(keyCode_);

    return;
  }

  // Try to use ev.keyIdentifier. This is only available in Webkit and 
  // Konqueror 4, each having some quirks. Sometimes the property is needed, 
  // because keyCode/which are not always available.

  var key = null,
      keyCode = null,
      id = ev.keyIdentifier;

  if (!id || id == &#39;Unidentified&#39; || id == &#39;U+0000&#39;) {
    return;
  }

  if (id.substr(0, 2) == &#39;U+&#39;) {
    // Webkit gives character codes using the &#39;U+XXXX&#39; notation, as per spec.
    keyCode = parseInt(id.substr(2), 16);

  } else if (id.length == 1) {
    // Konqueror 4 implements keyIdentifier, and they provide the Unicode 
    // character directly, instead of using the &#39;U+XXXX&#39; notation.
    keyCode = id.charCodeAt(0);
    key = id;

  } else {
    /*
     * Common keyIdentifiers like &#39;PageDown&#39; are used as they are.
     * We determine the common keyCode used by Web browsers, from the 
     * lib.dom.keyNames object.
     */
    keyCode_ = lib.dom.keyNames[id] || null;
    key_ = id;

    return;
  }

  // Some keyIdentifiers like &#39;U+007F&#39; (127: Delete) need to become key names.
  if (keyCode in lib.dom.keyCodes &amp;&amp; (keyCode &lt;= 32 || keyCode == 127 || keyCode 
        == 144)) {
    key_ = lib.dom.keyCodes[keyCode];
  } else {
    if (!key) {
      key = String.fromCharCode(keyCode);
    }

    // Konqueror gives lower-case chars
    key_ = key.toUpperCase();
    if (key != key_) {
      keyCode = key_.charCodeAt(0);
    }
  }

  // Correct the keyCode, make sure it&#39;s a common keyCode, not the Unicode 
  // decimal representation of the character.
  if (key_ == &#39;Delete&#39; || key_.length == 1 &amp;&amp; key_ in lib.dom.keyNames) {
    keyCode = lib.dom.keyNames[key_];
  }

  keyCode_ = keyCode;
};</code></pre>

    <p>The <code>findKeyCode()</code> function tries to determine the key and 
    its code using <code>ev.keyCode</code> or <code>ev.which</code>. If these two 
    properties are not available, then the <code>ev.keyIdentifier</code> property 
    is checked.</p>

    <p>When the <code>keyCode</code> or the <code>which</code> property are 
    available, the value is adjusted/corrected for each browser. Mainly, Webkit 
    is known to give the key code 25 when the key combination <kbd>Shift</kbd> 
    + <kbd>Tab</kbd> is used. Additionally, older Webkit versions gave incorrect 
    values for several keys. There are several incorrect key codes  in several 
    browsers, so we use the <code>lib.dom.keyCodes_fixes</code> map.</p>

    <p>We have the <code>lib.dom.keyCodes</code> object holding the list of key 
    codes associated to key names/identifiers. This is needed so we can provide 
    an easy to remember, human-readable value for the <code>key_</code> property, 
    which is added to the DOM Event object. If the key code is not found in the 
    list, the code is used as a Unicode decimal value, converted to a string 
    with the <code>String.fromCharCode()</code> function.</p>

    <p>If the <code>keyIdentifier</code> event property is used, we will try 
    to parse the &quot;U+XXXX&quot; notation. We also check to see if it is a single character, 
    like in Konqueror 4. If the value is not in one of these forms, it is 
    considered to hold the key name, like <kbd>Enter</kbd> or 
    <kbd>PageDown</kbd>. We have the <code>lib.dom.keyNames</code> object holding 
    a list of common key names associated to their key code. The <code>key_</code> 
    value will be the same as the one in the <code>keyIdentifier</code> 
    property.</p>

    <p>The DOM 3 Events specification defines that for some keys, like 
    <kbd>Delete</kbd>; the value for the <code>keyIdentifier</code> property is 
    that of the Unicode character. So, from the Unicode specification, or from 
    the ASCII table, &quot;U+007F&quot; is <kbd>Delete</kbd>, &quot;U+0009&quot; is <kbd>Tab</kbd>, 
    etc. In these cases, the <code>findKeyCode()</code> tries to also determine 
    the key name.</p>

    <p>The function that determines the <code>charCode_</code> and the 
    <code>char_</code> properties is as follows:</p>

<pre><code>function findCharCode (ev) {
  charCode_ = null;
  char_ = null;

  // Webkit and Gecko implement ev.charCode.
  if (ev.charCode) {
    charCode_ = ev.charCode;
    char_ = String.fromCharCode(ev.charCode);

    return;
  }

  if (ev.keyCode || ev.which) {
    var keyCode = ev.keyCode || ev.which;

    var force = false;

    // We accept some keyCodes.
    switch (keyCode) {
      case lib.dom.keyNames.Tab:
      case lib.dom.keyNames.Enter:
      case lib.dom.keyNames.Space:
        force = true;
    }

    // Do not consider the keyCode a character code, if during the keydown 
    // event it was determined the key does not generate a character, unless 
    // it&#39;s Tab, Enter or Space.
    if (!force &amp;&amp; key_ &amp;&amp; key_.length != 1) {
      return;
    }

    // If the keypress event at hand is synthetically dispatched by keydown, 
    // then special treatment is needed. This happens only in Webkit and MSIE.
    if (ev.type_ == &#39;keydown&#39;) {
      var key = lib.dom.keyCodes[keyCode];
      // Check if the keyCode points to a single character.
      // If it does, use it.
      if (key &amp;&amp; key.length == 1) {
        charCode_ = key.charCodeAt(0); // keyCodes != charCodes
        char_ = key;
      }
    } else if (keyCode &gt;= 32 || force) {
      // For normal keypress events, we are done.
      charCode_ = keyCode;
      char_ = String.fromCharCode(keyCode);
    }

    if (charCode_) {
      return;
    }
  }

  /*
   * Webkit and Konqueror do not provide a keyIdentifier in the keypress 
   * event, as per spec. However, in the unlikely case when the keyCode is 
   * missing, and the keyIdentifier is available, we use it.
   *
   * This property might be used when a synthetic keypress event is generated 
   * by the keydown event, and keyCode/charCode/which are all not available.
   */

  var c = null,
      charCode = null,
      id = ev.keyIdentifier;

  if (id &amp;&amp; id != &#39;Unidentified&#39; &amp;&amp; id != &#39;U+0000&#39; &amp;&amp;
      (id.substr(0, 2) == &#39;U+&#39; || id.length == 1)) {

    // Characters in Konqueror...
    if (id.length == 1) {
      charCode = id.charCodeAt(0);
      c = id;

    } else {
      // Webkit uses the &#39;U+XXXX&#39; notation as per spec.
      charCode = parseInt(id.substr(2), 16);
    }

    if (charCode == lib.dom.keyNames.Tab ||
        charCode == lib.dom.keyNames.Enter ||
        charCode &gt;= 32 &amp;&amp; charCode != 127 &amp;&amp;
        charCode != lib.dom.keyNames.NumLock) {

      charCode_ = charCode;
      char_ = c || String.fromCharCode(charCode);

      return;
    }
  }

  // Try to use the key determined from the previous keydown event, if it 
  // holds a character.
  if (key_ &amp;&amp; key_.length == 1) {
    charCode_ = key_.charCodeAt(0);
    char_ = key_;
  }
};</code></pre>

    <p>The <code>findCharCode()</code> first tries to use the 
    <code>charCode</code> event property. If it is available, then we are 
    done.</p>

    <p>When the <code>keyCode</code> event/<code>which</code> property need to be 
    used, we must check if the key determined during the <code>keydown</code> 
    event generates a character or not. If it is <kbd>PageDown</kbd> or some 
    other non-character key, then we cannot use the <code>keyCode</code> property 
    of the current <code>keypress</code> event.</p>

    <p>If the <code>keyCode</code> event and the <code>which</code> event properties are 
    not available, we try the <code>keyIdentifier</code> property. This property 
    is not available in the <code>keypress</code> event, but it can be available 
    when the <code>keydown</code> event synthetically dispatches the 
    <code>keypress</code> event. The <code>keyIdentifier</code> property is 
    checked for a Unicode character value of the form &quot;U+XXXX&quot;. For Konqueror 
    compatibility, we also check if the property value is only one character.  
    These values are used only if they do not hold something like &quot;U+007F&quot; (the 
    <kbd>Delete</kbd> key).</p>

    <p>The event dispatcher function code:</p>

<pre><code>function dispatch (type, ev) {
  if (!handlers_[type]) {
    return;
  }

  var handler = handlers_[type];

  if (type == ev.type) {
    handler.call(elem_, ev);

  } else {
    // This happens when the keydown event tries to dispatch a keypress event.

    var ev_new = {};
    lib.extend(ev_new, ev);
    ev_new.type = type;

    // Make sure preventDefault() still works
    ev_new.preventDefault = function () {
      ev.preventDefault();
    };

    handler.call(elem_, ev_new);
  }
};</code></pre>

    <p>This function checks if you provided an event handler for the given event 
    <code>type</code>. If you have one, then the handler is invoked with the 
    updated DOM Event object. The DOM Event object is faked if the event type 
    being dispatched does not match the type of the original event - this 
    happens when the <code>keydown</code> event handler dispatches 
    a <code>keypress</code> event.</p>

    <p>That is all! You should take a look into the new <a href="lib4.js">lib.js</a> file and check out how everything ties 
    together.</p>

    <h2 id="whatsnext">Summary</h2>
    
    <p>This three-part article series has provided pretty much everything you need to know to implement cross platform keyboard controls for complicated web applications. It&#39;s now up to you to start taking these techniques, experimenting with them, and making use of them in your own applications.</p>

    <p>In this article series we tackled one aspect from what it takes 
    to make a mature web application; there are always other things to do, more improvements to make! Some more improvements you may want to think about when you get time are:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>Refining user interaction. For example, you could provide an option to 
      allow the user to click to start drawing and click again to end the 
      drawing operation.  Some find it hard to hold down the mouse button down 
      while drawing.</li>

      <li>Application packaging. We have created this application with nice 
      structured source code, with jsdoc comments and multiple files, making it 
      easy to manage. However, in a production environment, you will need to 
      minify your code with tools like the <a href="http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/compressor/"><abbr title="Yahoo           User Interface">YUI</abbr> Compressor</a> or <a href="http://dean.edwards.name/packer/">Packer</a>.</li>

      <li>Always keep an eye on application performance. If you have a fast 
      system, you might want to consider testing on a slower one. For example,  dispatching synthetic DOM events is slower than 
      actually calling the event handler you want, if you already know which 
      function will handle the event you want to fire.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>If you want to learn more, stick around at <a href="http://dev.opera.com">DevOpera</a> and also follow the upcoming 
    major changes to <a href="http://code.google.com/p/paintweb">PaintWeb</a> 
    - the open-source web application this article is based on.</p>
