---
title: Introduction to XMLHttpRequest Level 2
authors:
- tiffany-brown
intro: 'XMLHttpRequest is the primary technology that allows us to do Ajax-style updates to our pages — essentially, more dynamic content updates that don’t require page reloads. The XHR1 spec (and earlier versions) worked okay but had a number of shortcomings. The new version — XHR2 — addresses many of those shortcomings; in this article we’ll look at how, providing an overview and explanatory examples of all the main features.'
license: cc-by-3.0
---
<ul>
<li><a href="#xhrintro">Introduction</a>
<li><a href="#xhrnew">What's new in XMLHttpRequest</a></li>
<li><a href="#xhrtimeouts">Setting and handling timeouts</a></li>
<li><a href="#crossdomainxhr">Requesting data from another domain</a>
<ul>
<li>
				<a href="#cors">An overview of cross-origin resource sharing</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#corsorigin">The origin header</a></li>
<li><a href="#corsalloworigin">Access-Control-Allow-Origin response header</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#xhrcredentials">Sending user credentials with requests</a></li>
<li><a href="#formdata">Sending data as key-value pairs with <code>FormData</code> objects</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#formdatahtmlform">Using <code>FormData</code> with an HTML form</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#xhrprogressevents">Monitoring data transfers with progress events</a>
<ul>
<li><a href="#xhruploads">Monitoring uploads</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a href="#mimeoverride">Enforcing a response MIME type</a></li>
<li><a href="#xhrresponsetype">Enforcing a response type</a></li>
<li><a href="#conclusion">Learn more</a></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="xhrintro">Introduction</h2>

<p><code>XMLHttpRequest</code> allows developers to make <abbr title="hyper text transfer protocol">HTTP</abbr> and <abbr title="hyper text transfer protocol - secure">HTTPS</abbr> requests and modify the current page without reloading it. Submitting forms and retrieving additional content are two common uses.</p>

<p>Early forms of <code>XMLHttpRequest</code> limited requests to text, HTML and XML. Sending variables and values required syntax &#8212; URL-encoded strings &#8212; that were messy to read and write.</p>

<p>Early XHR was also subject to a <a href="http://www.w3.org/Security/wiki/Same_Origin_Policy" target="blank">same-origin policy</a>, that made cross-domain requests more difficult. You couldn't, for instance, share data between <em>http://foo.example/</em> and <em>http://bar.example/</em> without an intermediary such as <a href="http://flxhr.flensed.com/">Flash-enabled XHR</a> or a <a href="http://developer.yahoo.com/javascript/howto-proxy.html">proxy server</a>. Sharing data between subdomains (e.g. <em>http://foo.example</em> and <em>http://www.foo.example</em>) required setting a <code>document.domain</code> in scripts on both origins. Doing so, however carried <a href="http://code.google.com/p/browsersec/wiki/Part2#Same-origin_policy_for_DOM_access">security risks</a>.</p>

<p>Uploading files with earlier implementations of XHR? No can do. Instead we had to rely on workarounds such as <a href="http://swfupload.org/">SWFUpload</a>, which required a plugin. Or we had to use a hidden <code>iframe</code>, which lacked client-side progress events.</p>

<p>We can do better than that, and we have. This article looks at <a href="http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/xhr/raw-file/tip/Overview.html">improvements to XMLHttpRequest</a>, and the state of support in Opera 12.</p>

<h2 id="xhrnew">What's new in XMLHttpRequest</h2>

<p>With changes to the XMLHttpRequest specification and improved browser support, you can now:</p>


<ul>
<li>Set request timeouts</li>
<li>Better manage data with <a href="#formdata"><code>FormData</code> objects</a></li>
<li>Transfer binary data</li>
<li><a href="#xhrprogressevents">Monitor the progress</a> of data transfers</li>
<li>Make safer <a href="#crossdomainxhr">cross-origin requests</a></li>
<li>Override the media type and encoding of responses.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="xhrtimeouts">Setting and handling timeouts</h2>

<p>Sometimes requests are slow to complete. This may be due to high latency in the network or a slow server response. Slow requests will make your application appear unresponsive, which is not good for the user experience.</p>

<p>XHR now provides a way for handling this problem: request timeouts. Using the <code>timeout</code> attribute, we can specify how many milliseconds to wait before the application does something else. In the example that follows, we&apos;ve set a three second (3000 millisecond) timeout:</p>


<pre><code class="javascript">function makeRequest() {
	var url = 'data.json';
	var onLoadHandler = function(event){
		 // Parse the JSON and build a list.
	}
	var onTimeOutHandler = function(event){
		var content = document.getElementById('content'),
			p = document.createElement('p'),
			msg = document.createTextNode('Just a little bit longer!');
			p.appendChild(msg);
			content.appendChild(p);

			// Restarts the request.
			event.target.open('GET',url);

			// Optionally, set a longer timeout to override the original.
			event.target.timeout = 6000;
			event.target.send();
	}
	var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
	xhr.open('GET',url);
	xhr.timeout = 3000;
	xhr.onload = onLoadHandler;
	xhr.ontimeout = onTimeOutHandler;
	xhr.send();
}

window.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', makeRequest, false);</code></pre>

<p>If more than three seconds pass before response data is received, we'll notify the user that the request is taking too long. Then we'll initiate a new request with a longer timeout limit (<a href="xhr-timeout.html">view an XHR timeouts demo</a>). Resetting the timeout limit within the <code>timeout</code> event handler isn't strictly necessary. We've done so for this URL to avoid a loop since its response will always exceed the initial timeout value.</p>

<p>To date, Chrome and Safari do not support XHR timeouts. Opera, Firefox, and Internet Explorer 10 do. Internet Explorer 8 and 9 also support timeouts on the <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd573303(v=vs.85).aspx"><code>XDomainRequest</code></a> object.</p>

<h2 id="crossdomainxhr">Requesting data from another domain</h2>

<p>One limitation of early <abbr>XHR</abbr> was the <a href="http://www.w3.org/Security/wiki/Same_Origin_Policy">same-origin policy</a>. Both the requesting document and the requested document had to originate from the same scheme, host, and port. A request from <em>http://www.foo.example</em> to <em>http://www.foo.example:5050</em> &#8212; a cross-port request &#8212; would cause a security exception (except in older versions of Internet Explorer, which allowed cross-port requests).</p>

<p>Now XMLHttpRequest supports cross-origin requests, provided <a href="http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/cors/raw-file/tip/Overview.html">cross-origin resource sharing</a> (CORS) is enabled.</p>

<p class="note">Internet Explorer 8 and 9 do not support cross-domain <code>XMLHttpRequest</code>, though IE10 does. Instead, Internet Explorer 8 and 9 use the <code>XDomainRequest</code> object, which works similarly.</p>

<p>Cross-origin requests look just like same-origin requests, but use a full URL instead of a relative one:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
var onLoadHandler = function(event) {
	/* do something with the response */
}
xhr.open('GET','http://other.server/and/path/to/script');
xhr.onload = onLoadHandler;
xhr.send();</code></pre>

<p>The critical difference is that the target URL must permit access from the requesting origin by sending an <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> response header.</p>

<h3 id="cors">An overview of cross-origin resource sharing</h3>

<p>For an in-depth look at CORS, read <a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/dom-access-control-using-cross-origin-resource-sharing/">DOM access control using cross-origin resource sharing</a>. Here we'll just cover two headers: the <code>Origin</code> request header, and the <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> response header.</p>

<h4 id="corsorigin">The origin header</h4>

<p>When making a cross-origin XHR request, Opera and other browsers will automatically include an <code>Origin</code> header — see below for an example:</p>

<pre><code class="no-highlight">GET /data.xml HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: Opera/9.80 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.6.8; U; en) Presto/2.10.289 Version/12.00
Host: datahost.example
Accept: text/html, application/xml;q=0.9, application/xhtml+xml, image/png, image/webp, image/jpeg, image/gif, image/x-xbitmap, */*;q=0.1
Accept-Language: en,en-US
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
Referer: http://requestingserver.example/path/to/askingdocument.html
Connection: Keep-Alive
Origin: http://requestingserver.example</code></pre>

<p><code>Origin</code> typically contains the scheme, host name, and port of the requesting document. It is not an author request header, meaning it can&#8217;t be set or modified using the <code>setRequestHeader()</code> method; user agents will ignore it if you try. Its entire purpose is to inform the target server about the origins of this request. Bear in mind that there is no trailing slash.</p>

<h4 id="corsalloworigin">The <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> response header</h4>

<p>The <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> header is sent by the target server in response to a cross-origin request. It tells the user agent whether access should be granted to the requesting origin. <strong>DOM operations involving a cross-origin XHR request will not be completed unless the requested URL allows it.</strong> An example follows:</p>

<pre><code class="no-highlight">HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 27 May 2011 21:27:14 GMT
Server: Apache/2
Last-Modified: Fri, 27 May 2011 19:29:00 GMT
Accept-Ranges: bytes
Content-Length: 1830
Keep-Alive: timeout=15, max=97
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Type:  application/xml; charset=UTF-8
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *</code></pre>

<p>In this case, we&#8217;re using a wild card (*) to allow access from <em>any</em> origin. This is fine if you are offering a public-facing <abbr title="Application Programming Interface">API</abbr>. For most other uses, you'll want to set a more specific origin value.</p>

<h2 id="xhrcredentials">Sending user credentials with cross-domain requests</h2>

<p>There may be occasions when you will want to send cookie data along with your cross-domain request. That&#8217;s where the <code>withCredentials</code> attribute comes in handy. It is a boolean attribute that alerts the browser that it should send <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/XMLHttpRequest2/#user-credentials">user credentials</a> along with the request. By default, the credentials flag is <code>false</code>. In the code below, let&#8217;s assume that our request is going from <em>http://foo.example</em> to <em>http://other.server</em>:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
var onLoadHandler = function(event) {
	doSomething(event.target.responseText);
}
xhr.open('GET','http://other.server/and/path/to/script');
xhr.withCredentials = true;
xhr.onload = onLoadHandler;
xhr.send();</code></pre>

<p>In our <a href="xhr-credentials.html">XHR credentials demo</a>, we are using a counter cookie to track the number of visits. If you examine the request and response data (you can do this with Dragonfly&apos; Network panel), you will see that the browser is sending request cookies and receiving response cookies. Our server-side script will return text containing the new visit count, and update the value of the cookie.</p>

<p>Keep the following in mind when making requests with credentials:</p>

<ul>
<li><code>withCredentials</code> is only necessary for cross-origin requests.</li>
<li>The <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> header of the requested URI can not contain a wildcard (*).</li>
<li>The <code>Access-Control-Allow-Credentials</code> header of the requested URI must be set to <code>true</code>.</li>
<li>Only a subset of response headers will be available to <code>getAllRequestHeaders()</code>, unless the <code>Access-Control-Expose-Headers</code> header has been set.</li>
</ul>

<p>Same-origin requests will ignore the credentials flag. A wildcard  <code>Access-Control-Allow-Origin</code> header value will cause an exception. If the value of <code>Access-Control-Allow-Credentials</code> is <code>false</code>, <strong>cookies will still be sent and received</strong>, however they will not be available to the DOM.</p>

<h2 id="formdata">Sending data as key-value pairs with <code>FormData</code> objects</h2>

<p>In previous implementations, data sent via XHR had to be submitted as a string, either using URL-encoding, or JSON (with <code>JSON.stringify()</code>). The example below uses URL-encoding:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var msg = 'field1=foo&field2=bar';
var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
xhr.open('POST','/processing_script');
xhr.setRequestHeader("Content-type", "application/x-www-form-urlencoded");
xhr.send(msg);</code></pre>

<p>Now, we can use the <code>FormData</code> object, and its ordered, key-value pairs. The syntax offers three benefits:</p>

<ul>
<li>Scripts are more readable</li>
<li>Data is sent in key-value pairs, as with regular HTML forms</li>
<li><code>FormData</code> objects are sent with <code>multipart/form-data</code> encoding, making it possible to use XHR for sending binary data.</li>
</ul>

<p>If you&apos;ve ever worked with <a href="http://help.adobe.com/en_US/FlashPlatform/reference/actionscript/3/flash/net/URLVariables.html"><code>URLVariables</code></a> in ActionScript 3.0, <code>FormData</code> will feel familiar. First create a <code>FormData</code> object, then add data using the <code>append()</code> method. The <code>append()</code> method requires two parameters: <code>key</code> and <code>value</code>. Each <code>FormData</code> key becomes a variable name available to your server-side script. An example follows:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
var dataToSend = new FormData(); // create a new FormData object

xhr.open('POST','/processing_script');

dataToSend.append('name','Joseph Q. Public'); // add data to the object
dataToSend.append('age','52');
dataToSend.append('hobby','knitting');

xhr.send(dataToSend); // send the object</code></pre>

<p>We&#8217;ve passed the <code>FormData</code> object as the argument of the <code>send()</code> method: <code>xhr.send(dataToSend)</code>. We did not set a <code>Content-Type</code> header on our <code>XMLHttpRequest</code> object. Let's take a look at the request headers sent by Opera:</p>

<pre><code class="no-highlight">POST /processing_script HTTP/1.1
User-Agent: Opera/9.80 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.6.8) Presto/2.10.289 Version/12.00
Host: datahost.example
Accept: text/html, application/xml;q=0.9, application/xhtml+xml, image/png, image/webp, image/jpeg, image/gif, image/x-xbitmap, */*;q=0.1
Accept-Language: en,en-US
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate
Expect: 100-continue
Referer: http://datahost.example/upload/
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Length: 4281507
Content-Type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----------J2GMKTyAkjRjNgFzKv3VBJ</code></pre>

<p>Opera has added the <code>Content-Type</code> header for us because we are using a <code>FormData</code> object. Other browsers do the same.</p>

<h3 id="formdatahtmlform">Using <code>FormData</code> with an HTML form</h3>

<p>You can also send the values from a form with <code>FormData</code>, by passing the form to the <code>FormData</code> object as shown below (<a href="xhr-formdata.html">view an XHR FormData demo</a>).</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var submitHandler = function(event) {
	var dataToSend = new FormData(event.target), xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
	xhr.open('POST','/processing_script');
	xhr.send(dataToSend);
}

var form = document.getElementById('myform');

form.addEventListener('submit',submitHandler,false);</code></pre>

<p><code>FormData</code> is still untrusted data. Treat input from a <code>FormData</code> object as you would any other kind of form submission.</p>

<h2 id="xhrprogressevents">Monitoring data transfers with progress events</h2>

<p>XMLHttpRequest now provides progress event attributes that allow us to monitor data transfers. Previously, we would listen to the <code>readystatechange</code> event, as in the example below:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
var onReadyStateHandler = function(event) {
	if( event.target.readyState == 4 && event.target.status == 200){
		/* handle the response */
	}
}
xhr.open('GET','/path_to_data');
xhr.onreadystatechange = onReadyStateHandler;
xhr.send();</code></pre>

<p>Though it works well for alerting us that all of our data has downloaded, <code>readystatechange</code> doesn&#8217;t tell us anything about how much data has been received. For backward compatibility, it remains a part of the specification. The <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/progress-events/"><code>ProgressEvent</code> interface</a>, however, is far more robust. It adds seven events that are available to both the <code>XMLHttpRequest</code> and the <code>XMLHttpRequestUpload</code> objects.</p>

<p>The different <code>XMLHttpRequest</code> Progress Events are as follows:</p>

<table>
	<thead>
		<tr>
		 <th>attribute</th>
		 <th>type</th>
		 <th>Explanation</th>
		</tr>
	<tbody>
	<tr>
	 <td><code>onloadstart</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-loadstart">loadstart</code></td>
	 <td>When the request starts.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>onprogress</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-progress">progress</code></td>
	 <td>While loading and sending data.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>onabort</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-abort">abort</code></td>
	 <td>When the request has been aborted, either by invoking the <code>abort()</code> method or navigating away from the page.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>onerror</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-error">error</code></td>
	 <td>When the request has failed.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>onload</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-load">load</code></td>
	 <td>When the request has successfully completed.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>ontimeout</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-timeout">timeout</code></td>
	 <td>When the author specified timeout has passed before the request could complete.</td>
	</tr>

	<tr>
	 <td><code>onloadend</code></td>
	 <td><code title="event-xhr-loadend">loadend</code></td>
	 <td>When the request has completed, regardless of whether or not it was successful.</td>
	</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p><code>ProgressEvent</code> inherits from the <a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/DOM-Level-2-Events/events.html#Events-EventTarget">DOM, Level 2 <code>EventTarget</code></a> interface so we can either use event attributes such as <code>onload</code>, or the <code>addEventListener</code> method in our code. In the examples above, we've used event attributes. In our next example, we&#8217;ll use <code>addEventListener</code>.</p>


<h3 id="xhruploads">Monitoring uploads</h3>

<p>All <code>XMLHttpRequest</code>-based file uploads create an <code>XMLHttpRequestUpload</code> object, which we can reference with the <code>upload</code> attribute of <code>XMLHttpRequest</code>. To monitor upload progress, we&#8217;ll need to listen for events on the <code>XMLHttpRequestUpload</code> object.</p>

<p>In the code below, we&#8217;re listening for the <code>progress</code>, <code>load</code> and <code>error</code> events:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var onProgressHandler = function(event) {
	if(event.lengthComputable) {
		var howmuch = (event.loaded / event.total) * 100;
				document.querySelector('progress').value = Math.ceil(howmuch);
	} else {
		console.log("Can't determine the size of the file.");
	}
}

var onLoadHandler = function() {
	displayLoadedMessage();
}

var onErrorHandler = function() {
	displayErrorMesssage();
}

xhr.upload.addEventListener('progress', onProgressHandler, false);
xhr.upload.addEventListener('load', onLoadHandler, false);
xhr.upload.addEventListener('error', onErrorHandler, false);</code></pre>


<p>Pay special attention to the <code>lengthComputable</code>, <code>loaded</code> and <code>total</code> properties used in the <code>onProgressHandler</code> function. Each of these are properties of the progress event object. The <code>lengthComputable</code> property reveals whether or not the browser can detect the input file size, while <code>loaded</code> and <code>total</code> reveal how many bytes have been uploaded and the total size of the file. You can <a href="xhr-progressevents.html">view an XHR progress events demo</a>.</p>

<p>These events only monitor the browser&#8217;s progress in sending data to or receiving data from the server. When uploading, you may experience a lag between when the <code>load</code> event is fired and when the server sends a response. How long of a lag will depend on the size of the file, the server&#8217;s resources, and network speeds.</p>

<p>In the example above, we&#8217;re setting event listeners on the <code>XMLHttpRequestUpload</code> object. To monitor file <em>downloads</em>, add event listeners to the <code>XMLHttpRequest</code> object instead.</p>

<h2 id="mimeoverride">Enforcing a response MIME type</h2>

<p>MIME-type mismatches are pretty common on the web. Sometimes XML data will have a <code>Content-type: text/html</code> response header, which will cause the value of <code>xhr.responseXML</code> to be <code>null</code>.</p>

<p>To ensure that the browser handles such responses in the way we&#8217;d like, we can use the <code>overrideMimeType()</code> method. In the example below, <em>data.xml</em> returns the following response headers:</p>

<pre><code class="no-highlight">Date: Sat, 04 Jun 2011 03:11:31 GMT
Server: Apache/2.2.17
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=100
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8</code></pre>

<p>That&#8217;s the wrong content type for an XML document. So let&#8217;s guarantee that the browser treats <em>data.xml</em> as XML, and populates the <code>responseXML</code> attribute:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
xhr.open('GET','data.xml');
xhr.overrideMimeType('application/xml');
xhr.send();
xhr.addEventListener('load', function(event) {
	console.log( event.target.responseXML );
}, false);</code></pre>

<p>Now the value of <code>xhr.responseXML</code> is a <code>Document</code> object, which means we can parse the data as we would any other XML document. <a href="xhr-overridemimetype.html">View an XHR override MIME type demo</a>.</p>

<h2 id="xhrresponsetype">Enforcing a response type</h2>

<p>It's also possible to tell the browser to handle a response as <code>text</code>, <code>json</code>,
an <code>arraybuffer</code>, a <code>blob</code> or and <code>document</code> using the <code>responseType</code> property.</p>

<p>As with <code>overrideMimeType</code>, the <code>responseType</code> property must be set before the request is sent. In the example below, we are telling Opera to treat the response as a <code>document</code>, and write the <code>firstChild</code> to the console (<a href="xhr-responsetype.html">view an enforcing response type demo</a>):</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
xhr.open('GET','data.xml');
xhr.responseType = 'document';
xhr.send();

xhr.addEventListener('load', function(e) {
	console.log( event.target.response.firstChild );
} false);</code></pre>

<p>Though <code>responseType</code> allows developers to, say, handle image data as a byte array instead of a binary string, it does not work miracles. Changing <code>document</code> to <code>json</code> in the example above would cause our response property to be <code>null</code> because XML is not JSON. Similarly, invalid JSON data will also cause <code>response</code> to be <code>null</code>. When setting a <code>responseType</code>, you still need to ensure that your data is both valid and compatible with the specified type.</p>

<p class="note">Note: As of publication, Opera does not support <code>blob</code> as a value, and only supports XML and not HTML for the <code>document</code> type. Chrome and Safari do not yet support <code>json</code> as a value.</p>



<h2 id="conclusion">Learn more</h2>

<p>These XMLHttpRequest improvements are a leap forward for client-side interactivity. For more on XMLHttpRequest, CORS, and related APIs, see the following resources:</p>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://dvcs.w3.org/hg/xhr/raw-file/tip/Overview.html">XMLHttpRequest specification</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/dom-access-control-using-cross-origin-resource-sharing/">DOM access control using cross-origin resource sharing</a></li>
<li><a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/the-w3c-file-api/">The W3C file API</a> by Bruce Lawson</li>
<li><a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc288060%28v=vs.85%29.aspx">XDomainRequest Object</a> (Internet Explorer 8 &amp; 9)</li>
</ul>

<p class="note">Note: Cover image — <q>Ajax and Achilles Gaming</q> — by <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/clairity/3229586543/">Sharon Mollerus</a>.</p>
