---
title: Vega — Opera’s Vector Graphics Library
authors:
- tim-johansson
tags:
- svg
- 3d
- core
- opera
- canvas
- coreblog
license: cc-by-3.0
layout: post
---

<p>In my previous post here at Core concerns I wrote a bit about
hardware acceleration of Opera&#39;s vector graphics library. In this
post I will go into some more details about our vector graphics
library.</p>
<h2>The history of Vega</h2>
<p>Vega was created shortly after we started working on SVG support.
When we added SVG support in Opera we needed a vector graphics
library. We looked into what was available to use and met our
requirements (fast, low memory usage and works on platforms
ranging from phones to TVs and desktop computers). We did not
find and good match for our needs, so we decided to write our
own.</p>
<p>Shortly after we created Vega we added &lt;canvas&gt; support, which
also uses Vega.</p>
<p>The most recent addition to Vega is the ability to use a
hardware accelerated back-end. The back-ends we are using at the
moment are OpenGL and Direct3D.</p>
<h2>HTML rendering</h2>
<p>In the core version we are currently developing, Presto 2.3,
we have made it possible to use Vega for all rendering in Opera.
This means that we can replace the platform specific code for
rendering with Vega. In the future it might be mandatory to
use Vega for rendering, but in Presto 2.3 it is still possible
to use the old rendering back-ends.</p>
<p>There are three reasons for doing this. The first reason is
that the new CSS3 background and borders standard is much easier
to implement using a vector graphics library. Presto 2.3 adds
partial support for CSS3 backgrounds and borders, but only when
using Vega for rendering.</p>
<p>The second reason is to support hardware acceleration of
our vector graphics. In order to be able to render SVG and
&lt;canvas&gt; in hardware we must also be able to directly draw the
rendered vector graphics to the screen since reading back
the rendered image from the graphics card is usually slower
than rendering in software.</p>
<p>The final reason is that it enables us to easily add advanced
graphical effects to our UI and to web pages.</p>
<h2>Hardware requirements</h2>
<p>The hardware back-end of Vega will unfortunately not work on
all graphics cards. The good news is that we detect at runtime
if your graphics card is supported or not and fallback to the
software back-end of Vega if the graphics card is not supported.
This means that everything will work regardless of your
graphics cards capabilities.</p>
<p>The first requirement of you graphics card is that it has
fast stencil buffers. If you are on a desktop computer that will
not be a problem, but on some mobile phones that will be a
problem. The reason for this requirement is that we use the
stencil buffer for rendering some complex shapes instead of
tessellating them and render triangles.</p>
<p>Since some web standards (for example opacity, SVG and
&lt;canvas&gt;) require us to render to an off-screen buffer which is
composited onto the screen we also require some kind of render
to texture to be able to use Vega hardware back-end. This means
a DirectX 9 compatible graphics card, or support for the
framebuffer object (FBO) extension in OpenGL. It would be possible
to do the same thing with pbuffers in OpenGL, but we need to do
many render target switches and with pbuffers that is too slow.</p>
<p>The final requirement is pixel shaders 2.0, or fragment shaders
2.0 as it is called in OpenGL. We also require GLSL support on
OpenGL. The shaders are required for filters. Filters is a part
of SVG which performs an operation such as blur or color
transforms on an image. Filters are also used in &lt;canvas&gt; and
to support text shadows and box shadows in HTML.</p>
<p>For a PC user these requirements are met by any DirectX 9
compatible graphics card. So with the correct drivers you should
be able to use the hardware back-end of Vega if you have a
DirectX 9 compatible graphics card.</p>
<h3>Update 2009-02-05:</h3>
<p>I was not very clear about the multiple back-ends of Vega.
If the graphics card is not capable of running the hardware
back-end of Vega the software back-end will be used as a
fallback and all features will still work. No features depends
on hardware acceleration. All of them, including CSS3
backgrounds and borders, will work in the software back-end of
Vega which does not depend on hardware accelerated graphics.</p>}]]
