---
title: 10.5x/10.6x Split
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
license: cc-by-3.0
layout: post
---

We have started releasing 10.60 snapshots. 10.60 has some core improvements making some patches obsolete, so from now on 10.50 and 10.60 get different files. The difference isn&#39;t that big yet, but as seen below Hotmail benefits from frame load event fixes and Picasaweb from a much wanted CSS parsing fix.

## Added patches

PATCH-258, Opera forgets to send load event to nested FRAMESET, Banco de Chile blank after login. This is a core regression. This patch is stop-gap until we get a proper fix. Note: we haven&#39;t actually tested the patch on the site, so if you are a user of Banco de Chile and this breaks something, please yell :)

PATCH-257, Site navigation menu font-size patch on skylark.co.jp. Opera currently uses minimum font size to calculate relative font sizes. In this case it causes way too large fonts.

PATCH-256, Google Docs file uploader fails if plug-ins are disabled (non-Flash version) due to event handling. Core bug.

PATCH-219, Fujitsu recruitment page on <a href="http://fujitsu.easycruit.com/" target="_blank">EasyCruit</a> hides content due to browser sniffing

## Changed patches



PATCH-230 - added comments to Java security patch to let give info something has happened.

## Disabled patches



PATCH-98, Hidden links and image details on <a href="http://picasaweb.google.com" target="_blank">Picasa</a> due to element height being set to 0.1%. A core fix now makes Opera resolve this to &quot;auto&quot; in standards mode (previously to 0). Several site issues should be fixed by this, among them on Taobao, MapQuest, DynDNS.

PATCH-22, Softbank shop uses reserved variable name parent (fixed by site)

PATCH-149, Delay load event for compose IFRAME if it&#39;s not accessible yet, enables editing on Hotmail. We have rewritten a lot of frame/iframe load event handling (not quite done yet).

PATCH-227, quoting and forwarding not working due to race condition between timeout and IFRAME&#39;s load event on Live Mail. Both this and PATCH-149 were crucial to Hotmail, so look out for things not working.

282065, <a href="http://deviantart.com" target="_blank">Deviantart</a> prevented mousedown on file inputs, making it impossible to select files (fixed by site)
