---
title: CORE-37
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
layout: article
---
A small and a big update to day. Take the small one first, in the 11.00 file.<br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Added patches</span><br/>PATCH-362, Prevent Asus browser sniffing from breaking support site software download.<br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches</span><br/>PATCH-270, Make virtual keyboard appear for pass code entry on societegenerale.fr. Core fix.<br/>PATCH-263, Twitter tries to focus a display:none TEXTAREA, removing focus from main status update box while loading. Core fix.<br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">11.10</span><br/>Now for the big one - a brand new file for 11.10. The <a href="http://my.opera.com/desktopteam/blog/2011/02/17/a-first-glimpse-at-barracuda" target="_blank">changelog for the first Barracuda</a> snapshot was lengthy and contained many good compatibility fixes. However, it is the one with the lowest number that has the biggest impact, the infamous CORE-37 &quot;Cancelling onkeydown does not cancel keypress&quot;. Discussed several times on this blog (&quot;hard to fix&quot;, patched on multiple sites etc.) - there is finally an improvement.<br/><br/>Some of you will have noticed that the fix is not complete in that alpha-keys are still not canceled and that the behavior varies between platforms. This should all be sorted out by Barracuda-final. Also take note that this is not the ultimate key event fix, merely a hack. The real fix is still hard and time consuming. It turns out though, that most of our patches related to this issue are about Space or Enter keys and the fix works for those - this file disables the following:<br/><br/>PATCH-368, Enable MSDN search<br/>PATCH-324, Fix autocomplete forms being prematurely submitted on OstgotaTrafiken.se<br/>PATCH-304, avoid extra linebreaks in Orkut.com chat box<br/>PATCH-299, Make deleting Facebook @mentions work<br/>PATCH-287, Don&#39;t insert linebreak in chat box when enter sends message on ebuddy.com<br/>PATCH-282, Avoid scrolling down when space key is pressed on monocubed.com [1]<br/>PATCH-264, Facebook @mentions feature requires correct cancellation of enter keys<br/>PATCH-250, Allow play.com searching with Enter<br/>PATCH-245, Enter key in chat box should send message without inserting linebreak on tuenti.com<br/><br/>Please test this out and yell at us if something breaks.<br/><br/>Finally, there were some other Core fixes in 11.10 as well, triggering removal of<br/><br/>PATCH-371, Prevent repaint issues triggered by specific text-overflow style on facebook<br/>PATCH-287, Hack to make script see typed value in TEXTAREA on ebuddy.com<br/>PATCH-257, Site navigation menu font-size patch on skylark.co.jp<br/><br/>1) Notice that if you keep the space bar pressed it will still scroll. This is a different bug from CORE-37, namely CORE-19753, keypress/keydown not repeated when holding a key.
