---
title: Cleaning After Ragnarök
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
license: cc-by-3.0
layout: post
---
A long log this time, so I&#39;ll split it into several sections.<br/><br/>First the things common to O11- and O12-files<br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Added patches</span><br/><br/>PATCH-517, docs.google: make document names visible. Core issue where a table with fixed layout and cells with total width exceeding table width pushes content out of view. Somewhat unspecified territory but Opera is the odd one out, so we&#39;ll have to align here at some point. Same thing that broke the apple.com menus.<br/><br/>PATCH-516, infojobs.com.br: unwrap input elements. The button has a margin-right of 0.1em. Opera calulates this to 2px due to imprecise rounding and ends up with slightly too wide content that wraps. Basic issue is up for fixing, but won&#39;t make it into O12.<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches</span><br/>PATCH-87, Downloading documents on salesforce.com runs into too strict anti-drive-by-install security (Core fix)<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Additional changes in 12-file</span><br/>Presto/2.9.220 introduces the new parser, but other Core developers have been busy fixing stuff too.<br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches due to normal Core fixes</span><br/>PATCH-479, capital.gr: avoid unintentional XHR abort() calls.<br/><br/>PATCH-454, No closure for eval&#39;ed function expression means no way to close info box on Google Maps.<br/><br/>PATCH-441, Script sets window.event manually for other events but not for (all) click events, breaks attachment download on Hotmail.<br/><br/>PATCH-361, Avoid too tall content on AOL.<br/><br/>PATCH-331, Disable HTMLElement.removeNode support. This was a compat experiment with no side effects, so we have removed support in Core.<br/><br/>PATCH-329, Disable Node.document support, breaks shimano.com menu. Also had some side effect in some jQuery-versions.<br/><br/>PATCH-303, Reporting different clientHeight and scrollHeight for TEXTAREA breaks commenting on nfl.com<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches due to Ragnarök fixes</span><br/>PATCH-463, Fix misnested markup on FlyTap<br/><br/>PATCH-462, 56.com - fix missing video comments<br/><br/>PATCH-444, Make Twitter hashtags visible due to misnested elements.<br/><br/>PATCH-366, Fix unclickable credit card selection box on PayPal.<br/><br/>PATCH-311, Hotmail hidden &#39;next page&#39; links due to markup errors<br/><br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches due to site changes</span><br/>Since Yahoo! have now phased in the latest Y!Mail version, we are retiring a bunch of patches that applied to the old one. It&#39;s hard to test all aspects of a site like this, so we&#39;re removing these from O12-file only for now. Please yell if you find something to be broken after this.<br/><br/>CORE-17539, Y!Mail spell check fix<br/><br/>CORE-17538, Y!Mail avoid text selection on drag-and-drop<br/><br/>353880, Y!Mail reversed mouse wheel scrolling<br/><br/>327060, Shadow on dialogs is messed up, so fix it<br/><br/>321384, createElement in XML document should put un-prefixed nodes in null namespace<br/><br/>194334, Make sure dragging does not cause visible selections<br/><br/>194334, Y!Mail remove selectSingleNode and selectNodes<br/>
