---
title: 11.50 Cleaning
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
layout: post
---
<span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches</span><br/> <br/>PATCH-402, Work around compilation bug by reversing the order of two statements on Gmail. Core fix.<br/><br/>PATCH-374, Panning an Orkut profile scrolls down to an unwanted loading message, hide it. Core fix for html, body with overflow hidden being too easy to scroll.<br/><br/>PATCH-351, Avoid jumping on generated content on iltasanomat.fi. Core fix for alternating margin collapsing on generated content.<br/><br/>PATCH-269, Reposition invisible file input on rediff - Opera requires click on choose button, not text part of input. Core fix makes also text part clickable.<br/><br/>PATCH-205, Fix image gallery navigation on bild.de. Core change aligns event transparency model with Gecko/WebKit (simply said ignore element transparency when deciding where events go) Many moons ago it was much more important to be IE compatible so we tried to reverse-engineer IE&#39;s behavior. It was somewhat successful, but not a 100% match, causing various bugs, like on bild.de. IE&#39;s model is more complex and in some cases also more useful, but for now we think predictability (lack of bugs) is more important than fancy effects.<br/><br/>This is a somewhat fundamental change that may cause issues we haven&#39;t thought about, so be alert. This is a very underspecified area, but work is ongoing to specify <a href="http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-ui/#pointer-events" target="_blank">CSS pointer events</a> Future changes in this area will be based on that.<br/><br/>CORE-18580, Converting RGB to Hex confuses &quot;high contrast mode&quot; detection on aol.com. Core fix makes getComputedStyle return rgb() *color values instead of hex, aligning with other browsers.<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Changed patches</span><br/>Milonic patch - make sure setting pixel style values includes &#39;px&#39; when site is in standards mode.
