---
title: Viewing and exporting source in Opera Mini
authors:
- webinista
tags:
- blog
layout: article
---
Opera Mini is one of our products available for mobile phones and tablets. It&#39;s available for iOS, Android and Symbian platforms, a range of J2ME feature phones, and other devices.<br/><br/>Opera Mini is a proxy browser, which means that the parsing of web pages occurs on Opera&#39;s servers, rather than the device. Opera Mini merely forwards the user&#39;s request to Opera&#39;s proxy servers and displays the <a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/opera-binary-markup-language/" target="_blank">OBML image</a> that those servers send back to the user&#39;s handset or tablet. <br/><br/>Each request for a URL requires a request to the proxy server. That much is obvious. What&#39;s less obvious, though, is this: any interaction that changes the DOM tree also generates a request to the proxy server. Opera Mini&#39;s servers also impose execution time limits on JavaScript. As a result, some DOM changes may not complete before the server sends the result to the user. <br/><br/>Thankfully, Opera Mini offers the ability to inspect the <a href="http://dev.opera.com/articles/view/opera-mini-web-content-authoring-guidelines/#page-source" target="_blank">current DOM tree</a> as rendered by Opera&#39;s proxy servers. Enter <strong>server:source</strong> in the Opera Mini address bar to view the source of the currently loaded page.<br/><br/>Viewing the source on a device, of course, is far from ideal. That&#39;s why Opera Mini also makes it possible to <i>export</i> the current DOM tree&#39;s source. To do this, append a post variable containing the URL of the script: <strong>server:source?post=http://url/to/your/script</strong>.<br/><br/>Opera Mini will send a POST request to that URL containing three fields: url, host, and html. Your script can save the code to a database, save it as a file, or e-mail it.<br/><br/>To get you started, you can use this <a href="https://github.com/webinista/OperaMiniExportSource" target="_blank">Opera Mini Export Source</a> script. You will need a server with PHP 5.2+ and an Amazon S3 account. The script will capture the source output and save it as an object to the S3 bucket you provide.<br/>
