---
title: Hotlook?!
authors:
- hallvord-steen
tags:
- sitepatching
- hotmail
- browser.js
layout: post
---
<span style="font-size: 140%">If the new Hotmail / Outlook.com site doesn&#39;t work for you, check if the <a href="http://www.opera.com/docs/browserjs/" target="_blank">browser.js documentation page</a> says browser.js is active and dated August 3rd or later. If you don&#39;t have the August 3rd file, try to choose &quot;Help / Check for updates&quot; and re-load or wait a day or two and let Opera update browser.js automatically.</span><br/><br/>Microsoft seems to be rolling out a Hotmail update, more or less merging Hotmail and the Outlook-like UI from outlook.com. Are they planning to brand it &quot;Hotlook&quot; now, by any chance?<br/><br/>As usual, there are both Opera and Hotmail bugs that cause problems. <br/><br/>Microsoft is using some JS generator that tends to put a lot of stuff inside the brackets of <strong>for()</strong> and <strong>if()</strong> statements. Like this, for example:<br/><pre>for(u.handler&amp;&amp;(y=u,u=y.handler,e=y.selector),u.guid||(u.guid=i.guid++),a=v.events,a||(v.events=a={}),h=v.handle,h||(v.handle=h=function(n){return typeof i!=&quot;undefined&quot;&amp;&amp;(!n||i.event.triggered!==n.type)?i.event.dispatch.apply(h.elem,arguments):t},h.elem=n),r=i.trim(wt(r)).split(&quot; &quot;),w=0;w&lt;r.length;w++)</pre><br/>The most interesting issue is an Opera bug that makes compilation fail for code like this:<br/><pre>for( a, (bar in baz); a&lt;b; a++)</pre><br/><br/>Actually, the ECMAScript spec is pretty clear that the &#39;in&#39; keyword isn&#39;t allowed in a for(a;b;c)-type loop, so when our developers first saw this problem they thought throwing was the right thing to do. However, a close reading of the spec shows that the parenthesizes makes it non-ambiguous and valid. This was fixed in core a while ago - unfortunately not early enough to get into a desktop release before the &quot;Hotlook&quot; rollout..<br/><br/>There is also some confusion regarding event.button for mouse events. I don&#39;t understand the full details there, I just realised that tweaking the existing patch that made drag-and-drop work in the old Hotmail now makes all the buttons and toolbars work in the new one.<br/><br/><h2>Added patches</h2><br/><ul class="bullets"><li> <strong>PATCH-766</strong>, Make mouse scrolling work in Zoho spreadsheets (sheet.zoho.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-767</strong>, Avoid number truncation bug on Grooveshark (grooveshark.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-770</strong>, Fix minified jQuery on Hotmail (mail.live.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-769</strong>, Opera throws when XSL variable has disable-output-escaping attribute, breaks sorting on staples.com (staples.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-762</strong>, Credit Suisse second-guesses GMaps GBrowserIsCompatible, adds extra Opera blocking (credit-suisse.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-751</strong>, Work around cached value bug that makes JSON.stringify() remove one digit from input (facebook.com)</li><li> <strong>PATCH-756</strong>, wikisky.org - Fix mouse controls (wikisky.org)</li></ul>	<br/><h2>Changed patches</h2><br/><ul class="bullets"><li> <strong>CORE-17444</strong>, Fix drag and drop in Hotmail (mail.live.com)</li></ul><br/><br/><strong>Update: bugs have been fixed, new version is live.</strong><br/>Changelog for update:<br/>staples.com fix no longer throws if accessing the responseXML of an Ajax request with a non-XML response<br/>Fixed hostname.endsWith method to not return true for all domain names one character longer than what you&#39;re looking for..
