---
title: G+, Skydrive, Twitter, Yahoo, BofA
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
license: cc-by-3.0
layout: post
---

<span style="font-size: 140%">Added patches</span><br/>PATCH-680, Work around bug that disregards BASE href on G+. This was a Core regression in 11.60, causing some links to resolve wrongly. Has been properly fixed in 12.<br/><br/>PATCH-679, skydrive: correct MouseEvent which. When ticking checkboxes on Skydrive you&#39;re supposed to get a menu on the right side to delete, move etc. One can always read <a href="http://www.quirksmode.org/js/events_properties.html#button" target="_blank">quirksmode</a> and cry over the sorry state of interoperability here and at the same time understand why mistakes can be made in JS code in this area.<br/><br/>PATCH-676, RegExp parsing exception confuses Dojo, breaks BMO.com interface. Core bug. Thanks to My Opera user Hypermax for all the <a href="http://my.opera.com/community/forums/topic.dml?id=1390832" target="_blank">debugging assistance</a>.<br/><br/>PATCH-671, Twitter: avoid ghost @ before username. Core bug with right-to-left mark in empty element causing double rendering of text.<br/><br/>PATCH-669, Fix 100.5% width search box on Yahoo! Japan. 12 only. After we improved percentage rounding in Core, some elements become too wide in the Opera-specific CSS.<br/><br/>PATCH-668, Broken browser sniffing prevents SafePass login on Bank of America site. This patch was developed somewhat blindly based on source sent by a user, so it has not been tested very well. Any users of BofA are encouraged to test and yell at us if we broke something :P<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Changed patches</span><br/>PATCH-665, boortz.com: override abuse of CSS content on real elements. Formatting changes.<br/><br/>PATCH-418, Y!Mail Fix inserting links in mail compose screen. Avoid console spam.<br/> <br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches</span><br/>PATCH-662, nola.com: work around abuse of CSS content on real elements. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-641, icicibank: fix browser sniffing that causes broken positioning of slideshow on frontpage. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-567, cnet: remove box-shadow to improve scrolling performance. Removed from 12 after Core fix.
