---
title: Last post
authors:
- ola-kleiven
tags:
- sitepatching
layout: article
---
As you know, my.opera soon closes. The current content of this blog will be exported and probably hosted under dev.opera for future reference. The GitHub <a href="https://github.com/operasoftware/browserjs/" target="_blank">repository</a> will continue as is.<br/><br/>This post is also my last public appearance as an Opera employee, as I will move on to other adventures after next week.<br/><br/>Do not worry though, the maintenance of browser.js will be passed on to capable compatibility hands owned by Aleksei known from the desktop blog.<br/><br/>Future sitepatching blog posts are also likely to appear under the new desktop or mobile blogs over at blogs.opera.com<br/><br/>I don&#39;t know how many old time readers are left here, but I will like to thank you all for the comments, complaints, patches and fixes over the years. Although the purpose of this work was often to conceal more or less silly mistakes in a temporary way, you, the users, made it meaningful and worthwhile.<br/><br/>And now for something completely different;<br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Added patches to BlinkOpera file</span><br/><br/>PATCH-1171, lingualeo.ru - show embedded videos from ted.com. Overlay unclickable.<br/><br/>PATCH-1168, otvety.google.ru - remove &quot;unsupported browser&quot; banner. 0xFAECE5<br/><br/>PATCH-1166, vimeo.com - make click-to-play and turbo mode video work by removing overlay and intercepting mousedown.<br/><br/>PATCH-1164, YouTube force Flash player for HTML5 content<br/><br/><br/><span style="font-size: 140%">Removed patches from PrestOpera file</span><br/><br/>PATCH-1158, deploy.com: sniffer. Site dead.<br/><br/>PATCH-936, nfl.com: avoid hundreds of reflows. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-902, ingdirect.com: avoid browser blocking. Site now redirects.<br/><br/>PATCH-895, directbus.com.mx: avoid freezing Flash frontpage. Site dead.<br/><br/>PATCH-875, bankofamerica: don&#39;t use IE stylesheet. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-750, westelm.com - Fix compatibility with old version of MapQuest API. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-716, Suzuki Japan - fix 3D car browser functionality. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-638, frys.com: avoid racy framebuster due to lack of script async. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-509, cnnturk: work around CSS bug that causes footer content to float upwards. Site changed.<br/><br/>PATCH-322, Force height to avoid overlapping on orbitdownloader. Site changed.
